6:56  you want to collect data from the internet which is web scrapping
that is extract data from the websites.

12:22   help()  and enter keywords now u get a list of python keywords.

18:13       \n  break line character it breaks the content in two lines in print statement.
            its new line character.
20:30       A python identifier is name used to identify a variable,function,class,module or other object.

20:42   start an identifier with single leading underscore ------>identifier is private   _b
        start an identifier with two leading underscores    ----->identifier is strongly private identifier. __b

       python does not allow special characters in variables example %,$,*,{} etc..

27:40   the continuous set of characters represented within quotation is called as string.

29:48  list is an order set of values or elements encloses within square brackets.
        tuples are faster than lists.

32:28   if u want fixed value you use tuple and tuples are faster compared to lists.
        for example pi.pi value is 3.14 it is fixed value we dont need to change the value.

36:40   set is an unordered collection of an items.every element is unique.

37:01   Operators are the constructors which can manipulate the values of the Operands.
42:04   in logical operator and always return lower value and or always returns higher value
        a=2 b=3  a and b==>2   a or b==>3

46:03   conditional statements are if and elif else.
46:43   conditional statements are use to execute a statement or group of statements when some condition is true.

51:56   a loop statement allows us to execute a statement or group of statements multiple times.
        types of loops:while for nested.
        while loops:
        while loops are known as indefinite or conditional loops.
        they will keep iterating until certain conditions are met.

53:19   for loop in python which repeats group of elements specified number of times.
55:57   loop control statements change execution from its normal sequence.
56:23   loops can be used in classes functions multiple other places as well.
58:28   command line arguments pass arguments to python programs when they are executed.
        arguments means certain values to it.
        sys.argv is the list of command line arguments.
        len(sys.argv) is the number of command line arguments.include file name also it calculates k.
        first argument is filename itself and next what ever u supply arguments to output those are counted.
1:10:53 File Object Attributes:
        file.close()    file.mode()     file.name()         file.softspace()

1:11:33 softspace() method return a boolean whether space character needs to be printed before another value
        when using print statements.
        File.seek()-->seek(offset,[,from]) changes the current file position
        File.tell()-->tells u the current position within the file.

1:13:50 SEQUENCES
        sequences are containers with items that are accessible by indexing or slicing.
        the built in length len function takes any container as an argument and returns the number of items
        in the container

1:14:21 Sequence Operations:
        a)concatenation---gluing two things together.joining the sequences together create new sequence.
        b)repitition-->
        c)membership testing
        d)slicing
        e)indexing

1:17:57     LISTS
            if u have collection of data that does not need random access.      when to use
            pop will delete an item by index not by actual value.
            remove will delete an item by actual value.

1:23:17     append vs extend
            append is for single element but extend for when u have two lists and joined together.

            insert
            insert will place the value.not replace the value.

1:26:08     TUPLE
            a tuple is sequence of immutable python object. tuples are sequences just like lists.
            where you have to deal with values which cannot be changed.         when to use
             value of pi and list of countries u don't want to change.
            we have constant set of values and have to iterate through them in tis case use tuple.

1:30:13     STRINGS:
            Slicing     Concatination   Updating    Repetition      Membership      Reverse
1:34:01     most cases we use formatting purpose %d %s  %f
            methods in string
            capitalize,encode,count,max,min,replace,upper,index(throw error),find(does not throw error)


1:37:13     SETS
            it is unordered collection of unique items.
            when we want to collect unique strings or ints from a sequence.(when to use sets)
1:41:31     remove vs discard:
            remove will throw an error but discard does not through an error.


1:42:03     DICTIONARIES
            it is unordered collection of key value pairs.
            it is generally used when we have huge amount of data.

1:49:22 59 FUNCTIONS AND LOOPS(BIG PART IT IS 20 MINUTES)
          function is block of organised reusable code that is used to perform single and related action.
          the intention should be doing one thing and one thing at a time only.
1:52:23     the set of statements written once and executed multiple times.
            once we define the function we call it multiple times.
1:53:43     return terminates the execution of the function and also returns the output to calling function.
            it not just returning a value it also return control to the main part of the function.

1:57:50     BUILT IN FUNCTIONS
            builtin functions are functions which are built into python and can be access by end users
            sorted()    all()       any()  bool() chr() globals() enumerate()  reverse() open()   abs()

1:59:19     except False,None,Zero      everything are True only k
2:00:37     regards to bool False 0 None return False only. bool(0,None,False)=False
2:04:07     Enumerate returns the list of tuples.
            tuple consist of index values and items from the list.

2:05:16     Lambda Functions.
            u want to make functions more concise easy to write and read you can create lambda functions.
            we can use lambda function when we require nameless function for short period of time.
2:07:15     lambda uses in filter map reduce functions mostly.
2:11:18     SCOPE OF VARIABLES
            global--variables declared outside he function and can be used anywhere in the program
            local --variables declared inside the function and can be used in inside the function only.

             id will tell u the memory location of the variable.

2:29:22     Attributes
            class attributes are attributes which are owned by class itself.
            They will be shared by all the instances of the class.
            a)built in attributes
            b)user defined attributes

            Type of Attributes inside a class:
2:35:53     private Attributes:can only be accessed inside of the class definition.
            Public Attributes:attributes can and should be freely used.
            Protected Attributes:attributes are only accessed from within the class and its subclasses.

2:38:13 64  PRIVATE METHODS
            when the attributes of an object can only be accessed inside the class it is called
             Private.use __(double underscore) to hide a method
             same for the variables also for private variables also.


2:41:16     constructor and destructor
            the constructor is implemented by using __init__(self) which u can define parameters
            that follows he self
            the destructor is defined using __del__(self)

2:45:15 67 b Encapsulation:
        combining the code into public interface and private implementation of that interface.

2:48:14 Multiple Inheritance:
        a single derived class inherited from multiple in the sense two or more than base classes.

2:49:02 Multilevel Inheritance:
        the derived class inherits from class which in turn inherits from some other class.

2:51:05  POLYMORPHSIM

        Polymorphism is the ability to leverage the same interface for different underlying forms such as
        data types or classes.

2:54:41 70 STANDARD LIBRARIES
            standard library is collection of tools that come wit python.
            it includes             Builtin Functions               Modules                 Packages

            A module is file containing python definitions and statements.

2:55:37     Import Statement
            Use import  to tell the python to load a particular module.
            when the interpreter encounters an import statement it imports the module


2:56:11     Dir Function
            a dir is built-in function which returns the list of strings containing the name defined by the module.
            it gives the list of variables and functions defined in that module.
            import math         print(dir(math))        or      from math import *   is also same.(not recommended both two)
            op: __doc__,__file__, __loder__,fabs,factorial,floor,fmod,frexp,radians,sin,

2:57:18     FROM IMPORT STATEMENT
            from import statement allows you to import the specific attribute from the specific module into the current
            namespace.

            from math import sqrt(this is the recommended way)
            the statement does not import the entire module it just import the required files in the module.



2:59:39 75  RELOAD FUNCTION:
            when the module is imported into script the code in the top level portion of module is executed only once.
            therefore if u want to re execute the  top level code in module  you can use the reload function.
            the reload function imports a previously imported module again.

            import modules used in the python:
            Sys         Os Os.path          Math        DateTime        Random      Json

            sys module provides access to some variables used or maintained by the interpreter
            and to function that interact strongly with the interpreter. It is always available

            import sys
            print(sys.argv)     stores any command line argument passed when you start python.also includes the name of program we
                                are running.
            print(sys.exit())   tells the python interpreter to quit.
3:01:49     print(not sys)      returns False if module is imported,else True
            print(sys.winver)   return the version number used to form registry keys on windows platforms.
            print(sys.prefix)      will give u the path for virtual environment of the python was live in that path.
                                    where the python is installed on our system.
            Sys module is more important in case of interact with the operating system or interacting with the command line.
            it is not much used in data science or web development purpose.when u r dealing with os then it is useful.


3:03:13     OS MODULE
            the os module includes code that lets python work with your operating system,they even run operating system
            commands.
            import os
            print(os.getcwd())
            print(os.chdir("d:/Python"))
            print(os.mkdir("d:/Python/Py"))     it creates a directory in given path.
            print(os.rmdir("d:/Python/Py"))      it deletes directory from given path.



3:05:57 76  Os.Path Module:
            print(os.path.join("/Users/adhypakas/PycharmProjects",'/Users/adhypakas'))
            it takes one or more paths and joins them by using the current operating system's path separator.

            print(os.path.abspath('/Users/adhypakas/PycharmProjects",'/Users/adhypakas''))
            it takes the relative path name and returns the corresponding absolute path name.

            print(os.path.normpath("/Users/adhypakas/PycharmProjects",'/Users/adhypakas'"))
            it converts path names from nonstandard format to standard format)

3:09:13     print(os.path.split())      it takes pathname and splits into two parts directory part and filename part
            print(os.path.exists())     it takes path name and returns true if it is exists.
            print(os.path.isdir())      it takes pathname and returns true if it points to a directory
            print(os.walk())            os.walk() it will generate tuple of path folders files present in given path
                                        and will keep traversing in the subfolders.


3:11:39 76  MATH FUNCTIONS:
            it provides access to the mathematical functions.


3:14:12     RANDOM MODULE:
            this module implements the pseudo random number generators for various distributions.


3:16:08     random module use cases:
            for encrypting u r banking session on the internet.
            to randomly allow a new enemy spaceship to appear and shoot at u.


3:17:12     DATETIME MODULE:
            the datetime module includes tools for working with dates times and combinations.
            the time module includes tools for working with times and dates in the recent past to the near future.


3:18:03     JSON MODULE:
            the json module provides an easy way to encode and decode data in json.
            json is for storing the data.


3:19:40     REGULAR EXPRESSIONS:
            how to find a string in this large amount of data.
            ho to verify email address in list of emails.
            need to match for certain patterns or words and find the number of occurrences can be handled by regular expression.
            Regular expression is a special text string for describing the search pattern.

3:21:23     re module for regular expression:
            1)sub method:
            the replace method of string is used to replace all occurrences of one string with another
            and index method is used to find the first occurrence of of substring in a string.

 3:25:46     for matching of the string at the beginning we use '^abc'
             for matching  of the string at the ending we use $ 'abc$'

3:26:20     SEARCH AND MATCH Function:
            search will search the string in entire string
            match will search the string at the beginning of the string only.


3:27:38  PACKAGES:
            package is a collection of python modules.logically combined together.
            python packages allow u to break down large systems and organize their module in a consistent way
            that you  and other people can use and reuse efficiently.

3:28:23     EXCEPTION HANDLING:
            an exception is signal occurs when an error or other usual condition has occurred.
            Exceptions can be handled using try statement.
            a critical operation which can raise exception is placed inside the try clause and the code that handles exception
            is written in except clause.

3:31:16     CATCHING SPECIFIC EXCEPTIONS:
            a try clause can have any number of except clause to handle them differently but only one will be executed
            in case an exception occurs.
            we can use tuple of values to specify multiple exceptions in an except clause.

3:33:21     FINALLY BLOCK:
            the try statement in python can have an optional finally block.
            this clause is executed no matter what,and is generally used to release external resources.

3:34:27     USER DEFINED EXCEPTIONS:
            programmers may name their own exceptions by creating a new exception class.
            Exceptions need to be derived form the Exception class either directly or indirectly.

6:24:46     WEB SCRAPPING:
            web scrapping is technique employed to extract large amount of data from websites whereby data is extracted and saved
             to local file in our computer or  a database.
             text data or image data or collection of links

6:26:03     LIBRARIES used for WEB SCRAPPING:
            Beautiful soap
            it is python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files.
            It provides simple way of navigating searching and modifying the HTML/XML parse tree.

6:27:42     REQUEST LIBRARY IN PYTHON:
            request library is used for sending and receiving info over HTTP.
            downloading part of the web page can be done by requests library.

6:29:02     Beautiful soap prettify() is used to print the HTML content in its tree structure.




6:32:49 104 DATA VISUALIZATION IN THE WINDOW:
            till now we are using matplotlib to visualise the data in the python window.
            Bokeh is python interactive visualization library that targets web browsers for presentation
            Bokeh is widely used as it allows building complex statistical plots quickly using simple commands.
            install command like this for bokeh
            pip install bkcharts
            pip install bokeh

6:36:11     HOW COMPUTER READS AN IMAGE:
6:38:32     OPENCV
            OpenCV python is library of python designed to solve computer vision problems.
            all the opencv array structures are converted to and from NUMPY arrays.
            image processing happening with opencv.
6:39:17     Basic Operations with OpenCV:
            read a image:
            pip install opencv-python (in command line)
            import cv2
            python stores the image as Numpy array/matrix of numbers




